# iDHS-DMAT
iDHS-DMAT: Identifying DNase I hypersensitive sites in human genome using double dimensionality reduction and multiple average test

Abstract:There is a close correlation between DNase I hypersensitive sites (DHSs) and DNA transcriptional regulatory elements, so the further research on DHSs is of great value for biomedicine. As we all know, a series of computational methods have been proposed to identify DHSs so far. However, they are still not ideal in terms of handing features and results. By using double dimensionality reduction and multiple average test, a new computational method has been put forward to identify the DHSs in this paper, which is called iDHS-DMAT. Firstly, three feature extraction methods of DNA sequences are combined: Kmer, DACC and PCPseDNC . Then, min-redundancy and max-relevance and feature importance score algorithm are used to reduce dimension. What's more, over-sampling and under-sampling are combined to deal with the unbalanced data. Finally, the random forest and multiple average test are proposed to cross-validate the two benchmark data sets. The experimental results show that accuracy achieved by this method is up to 92.74% and 93.60% in S1 and S2, respectively. Compared with previous methods, this new computational method can achieve better performance and more efficient work. It is proved that iDHS-DMAT will be a reliable predictive analysis method. All the data and code are accessible at https://github.com/Wang-Jinyue/iDHS-DMAT.

Key words:DNase I hypersensitive sites; Feature importance score; Multiple average test
